feat: add spec 0088-PRBD (#2117)
vegaprotocol/specs: protocol/0088-PRBD-price_builder.md

# Price Builder

## Summary

> This specification adds a flexible way to configure "price" method for different purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification adds a flexible way to configure "price" method for different purposes: mark price or the "internal" price for TWAP for perpetuals' funding payments.
```

> For perpetual futures markets there should be a “mark price” configuration and a “market price for funding” configuration so that the market can, potentially use different mark price for mark-to-market and price monitoring and completely different price for calculating funding.

Reviewer: We should link to the doc describing the methods (or move all the text and formulae here).

> ## Acceptance criteria

Reviewer: We should also move all the acceptance criteria that are about how the "price is built" and the parameter validation here as that's common across both mark price and the "internal twap price".

# Price Builder

## Summary

This specification adds a flexible way to configue "mark price" method for different purpose. 

For perpetual futures markets there should be a “mark price” configuration and a “market price for funding” configuration so that the market can, potentially use different mark price for mark-to-market and price monitoring and completely different price for calculating funding.

> ## Algorithms for calculating the *Mark Price*

Reviewer: This isn't just mark price.

> ### 1. Last Traded Price of a Sequence with same time stamp with maximum frequency set by `network.markPriceUpdateMaximumFrequency`

Reviewer: I thought this will stay in the old mark price spec.

>*Example:* Assume `network.markPriceUpdateMaximumFrequency = 10s`.

Consider the situation where the mark price was last updated to $900 and this was 12s ago. There is a market sell order for -20 and a market buy order for +100 with the same time stamp. The sell order results in two trades: 15 @ 920 and 5 @ 910. The buy order results in 3 trades; 50 @ $1000, 25 @ $1100 and 25 @ $1200, the mark price changes **once** to a new value of $1200.

Now 8s has elapsed since the last update and there is a market sell order for volume 3 which executes against book volume as 1 @ 1190 and 2 @ 1100.
The mark price isn't updated because `network.markPriceUpdateMaximumFrequency = 10s` has not elapsed yet.

Now 10.1s has elapsed since the last update and there is a market buy order for volume 5 which executes against book volume as 1 @ 1220, 2 @ 1250 and 2 @ 1500. The mark price is updated to 1500.

> ### 2. Flexible mark price methodology

Reviewer: This is really what I think of when we talk about the price builder.
